[Flang] Add a Fortran Standards Support doc (#132195)
llvm/llvm-project: flang/docs/FortranStandardsSupport.md

| Changes to system_clock                                    | N      | |
| Changes for conformance with the new IEEE standard         | Y      | |
| Additional named constants to specify kinds                | Y      | |
| Extensions for c_f_pointer intrinsic                       | N      | |
| Procedures for converting between fortran and c strings    | N      | |
| The at edit descriptor                                     | N      | |
| Control over leading zeros in output of real values        | N      | |
| Extensions for Namelist                                    | N      | |
| Allow an object of a type with a coarray ultimate component to be an array or allocatable | N | |
| Put with Notify                                            | N      | |
| Error conditions in collectives                            | N      | |
| Simple procedures                                          | N      | |
| Using integer arrays to specify subscripts                 | N      | |
| Using integer arrays to specify rank and bound of an array | N      | |
| Using an integer constant to specify rank                  | N      | |

> | Reduction specifier for do concurrent                      | Y      | |

Reviewer: I think this is still in progress. @ergawy can confirm.  Should the status be `N` or `P`?

Reviewer 2: This is supported for the pure Fortran case, for the `do concurrent` -> OpenMP case, this is not supported yet. So I think @kiranchandramohan is indeed correct here.

Author: As @ergawy mentions, this is supported for the sequential Fortran case.
But I understand @rouson 's point that this might cause a user to think that reduction works in a parallel sense. So I am changing it to P (partial).

Reviewer: @kiranchandramohan actually I hadn't thought about the difference between serial support and parallel support.  My point was that I didn't even realize that serial support for `reduce` existed yet on the main branch of llvm-project.  I'm building `flang` now and will try it out.  If serial support works, then I think either "Y" or "P" is fine and I leave it up to you to decide.

| Enumerations                                               | N      | |

## Fortran 2018
All features except those listed in the following table are supported. Almost all of the unsupported features are related to

> coarrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multi-image execution.
```
Many multi-image parallel features have do not necessarily involve coarrays (e.g., collective subroutines and teams).

Reviewer: @kiranchandramohan thanks for making the edits.  "Parallel features" could be interpreted to include parallelization of `do concurrent` so I'd still suggest "multi-image" to replace "parallel."

Author: Done. Made the suggested change.

<!--===- docs/FortranStandardsSupport.md

   Part of the LLVM Project, under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM Exceptions.
   See https://llvm.org/LICENSE.txt for license information.
   SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception

-->

# Flang Fortran Standards Support

```{contents}
---
local:
---
```

This document summarizes Fortran standards support in Flang. The information is only provided as a guideline. The
TODOs/Not Yet Implemented messages emitted by the compiler for unimplemented features should be treated as authoritative.

The standards support information is provided as a table with three columns that are self explanatory. No distinction is
made between the support in the Parser/Semantics and MLIR or Lowering support. The Status column uses

> the letters **P**, **Y**, **N** for the implementation status:
> - **P** : When the implementation is incomplete for a few cases
> - **Y** : When the implementation is complete
> - **N** : When the implementation is absent

Reviewer 3: I still think we should make this easier for readers (explain the letter, order them by degree of completion)
```suggestion
the letters **Y**, **P**, **N** for the implementation status:
- **Y** (Yes): When the implementation is complete
- **P** (Partial): When the implementation is incomplete
- **N** (No): When the implementation is absent
```

Author: Done. The following format was used.

```
- **Y** : Yes. When the implementation is complete
```

> There is no distinction made between support in the Parser/Semantics and the MLIR or Lowering stages.

Reviewer 3: This sentence is now repeated (just above the P/Y/N there's an equivalent one).

Author: Thanks. Removed the former occurence.

<!--===- docs/FortranStandardsSupport.md 
  
   Part of the LLVM Project, under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM Exceptions.
   See https://llvm.org/LICENSE.txt for license information.
   SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
  
-->

> # Flang's Fortran standards support

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Flang Fortran Standards Support
```

Author: Done

```{contents}
---
local:
---
```

> This document summarizes Flang's Fortran standards support. The information is only provided as a guideline. The compiler emits

Reviewer 5: If we take the suggested change above, should we also remove `'s` here? Or just rephrase it to:
> This document summarizes Fortran standards support in Flang.

Author: Done

> TODOs/Not Yet Implemented messages for unimplemented features and that should be treated as the authoratative information. 

Author: Done

> Standards support is provided upto Fortran 2008 for now. It will be later extended for Fortran 2018 and Fortran 2023.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Standards support is provided upto Fortran 2008 for now. It will be extended later for Fortran 2018 and Fortran 2023.
```

Author: Done

Reviewer: "upto" should be "up to"

Author: I have removed this sentence.

The standards support information is provided as a table with three columns that are self explanatory. The Status column uses

> the letters **P**, **Y**, **N** for the various implementation status.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the letters **P**, **Y**, **N** for the implementation status:
```

Author: Done

- **P** : When the implementation is incomplete for a few cases
- **Y** : When the implementation is complete
- **N** : When the implementation is absent

Note 1 : No distinction is made between the support in the Parser/Semantics and MLIR or Lowering support.

> Note 2 : Besides the features listed below a few intrinsics like MIN/MAX are not supported for a few cases with CHARACTER type.

Reviewer 6: Do we have a list of the intrinsics where support for `CHARACTER` types is incomplete? If it is not too difficult to identify these, a complete list may be better than alluding to "a few intrinsics".

Author: I do not have a list of intrinsics here. The only ones I am actually aware or the MIN/MAX intrinsic. Since I was not 100% I am making a conservative statement here. Do we want to just say MIN/MAX only? Do you have additional info in the gfortran testsuite?

Reviewer 6: I can check to see if there are any failures as a result of this. I don't know off the top of my head.

> 

Reviewer 5: Since all the contents in the first three sections are the same, I suggest to consolidate to the `FORTRAN77, Fortran 90 and Fortran 95` section. In addition, if we take Michael's suggestion to populate the `Fortran 2018` and `Fortran 2023` sections, I suggest to re-order the sections to start with `Fortran 2023` first. I think people are more interested in which newer features that flang support nowadays.

> ## Fortran 77

Reviewer 5: FORTRAN 77 - consistent with what we use in FortranFeatureHistory.md

Author: Done

All features are supported.

## Fortran 90
All features are supported.

## Fortran 95
All features are supported.

## Fortran 2003
All features except those listed in the following table are supported.

| Feature                                                    | Status | Comments                                                |
|------------------------------------------------------------|--------|---------------------------------------------------------|

> | Parameterized Derived Types                                | P      | PDT with length type is not supported. See [Proposal](ParameterizedDerivedTypes.md) |

Reviewer 7: length type => length type parameters

Author: Done

| Assignment to allocatable                                  | P      | Assignment to whole allocatable in FORALL is not implemented       |

> | Pointer Assignment                                         | P      | Polymorphic assignment in FORALL is not implemented     |

Reviewer 8: I think this was implemented recently:

- https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/pull/130114
- https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/pull/129522
- https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/pull/130772

Author: Thanks Tom. I have updated.

> | The VOLATILE attribute                                     | P      | Volatile in procedure interfaces is not implemented     |

Author: Done
